---
layout: post
title: "Fitts' Law"
description: ""
category: 
tags: [hci]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

I recently did a presentation on Fitts' Law for my 'Models and Theories of HCI' class. It was an interesting experience on many fronts for me:

- After leaving Guayaquil, it was my first time presenting to a group of students, albeit peers this time. I must say, I like it. Being able to stand in front of a group of people, knowing that you are contributing to their knowledge on a well prepared topic is cool.
- Reading the articles and looking into the circumstances of work being done more than 50 years ago was a bit inspiring. This was a time when CS as a field was not even properly born, yet this model continues to be used daily by many researchers and designer. Also, Fitts was a psychologist working on an army grant. It gives perspective on how new subject areas develop and how far new directions can take you.

To anyone interested, I would like to recommend [this post](http://www.simonwallner.at/ext/fitts/) from a student at the University of Copenhagen. The tools that they built serve well to demonstrate some of the behaviours that the model describes. You can also find references to the most important articles published on the subject.

At the end of the discussion, Prof. Harrison asked us why we thought the model was called 'a law'. To which there were two interesting viewpoints and answers:

- Fitts' Law describes the motion of selecting something with a pointer as not being fluid, due to the need for the brain to process feedback it receives as it approaches the target. With the feedback, the user is able to do micro-adjustments on its way. The formula itself might not even be important but the description of the behaviour is.
- Though the formula is empirically derived, it is the only mathematical formula that truly can describe some part of a human's behaviour. Throughout the years, this has meant that it has received special attention from the HCI community as it is a point of incidence for many researchers.

The differing opinions make me wonder what makes science and research interesting to ones or others.
